# PneumoniaDetection-Deployment
Using Convolutional Neural Networks and Tensorflow to detect Pneumonia in a patient using their frontal Chest  X-Ray images

# Abstract
This study proposes a Convolutional Neural Network model that detects the presence of Pneumonia in a patient based on his/ her X-Ray images. The model is trained from scratch using Python and different libraries associated with Python, so it separates itself from the already pre-trained models. A chest x-ray is the best test for diagnosing pneumonia. The diagnosis of Pneumonia disease is a human-dependent study. [1]An x-ray exam will allow your doctor to see your lungs, heart, and blood vessels to help determine if the person suffers from pneumonia. When interpreting the x-ray, the radiologist will look for white spots in the lungs (called infiltrates) that identify an infection.  Having a model that detects this presence eliminates the two types of human error, which are Mistakes and Violations.  Once the model is trained with a sufficient number of training images of both Normal and Pneumonia X-rays, then the prediction for a new image is made within a matter of seconds. The trained Convolutional neural network model is then exported as a JSON model for deployment on the browser. The deployment process is done using HTML and Javascript, where the model is first fed into the browser, and then a frontal X-ray image is uploaded for inference. The model predicts if it belongs to the Normal or the Pneumonia positive class.

# Introduction
Pneumonia is a disease that infects the lungs and is caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi. The early diagnosis of this disease is the key to prevent the spread of pneumonia throughout the body. 
We need a system that detects the presence of this disease at a rate that is as fast as the Radiologists, if not more and something which is easily available to the end-user. In the proposed technique We implement the concept of Artificial neural networks to develop a Machine Learning model which is a computational model that is inspired by the way biological neural networks in the human brain process information. ANN’s have proven to be the breakthrough in the ML industry by portraying their prowess in the fields of Speech Recognition, Computer Vision as well as text processing. 
The input for the model is images of frontal-view of chest X-rays, and it outputs either of the two values, i.e., If the image represents Normal Chest X-Ray or Pneumonia positive X-ray image. The deployment of the model on the browser eases the work of the end-user as he/she just has to upload the chest X-ray image on the browser and the browser will predict the class of the image(Normal/Pneumonia).

